Steve's Stories. My name is Steve Fletcher and in 1990 I founded Swicker Carnival who
have organised Cardiff Carnival ever since. Steve's Story Number 4. Cardiff Carnival
Under Attack. Cardiff Carnival's philosophy has always been one of interculturalism and
inclusion. However, this vision was violently opposed by some in the early days of the carnival's
history. The first incident of racist attack took place in 1991 and involved Swicker Carnival's
minibus being vandalised while parked overnight in Riverside. Acid was used to etch Nazi swastikas
and the logo of the far-right racist group Combat 18 on every panel of our poor minibus.
The most shocking incident was the knife attack by a bare-chested skinhead on Cardiff Carnival's
wrapper in residence whilst he was performing on the bandstand in the haze as part of the
Cardiff Carnival finale in 1995. Our wrapper was badly shaken and his shirt slashed wide open,
but he recovered quickly and even managed to continue his set. I helped the special constable
supporting the carnival to identify the attacker and he was quickly arrested and so I returned to
the bandstand to ensure the finale continued smoothly. However, the sweaty skinhead was as
slippery as an eel and managed to break free from the arresting police officers and take off at full
pelt down the haze before skidding behind Jury's Hotel. Sadly, just as the attacker was about to
be re-arrested, the lead constable, who was not a swimmer, fell into the canal and had to be saved
from drowning by his colleague. So unfortunately, justice was not served in this instance.
In the early days, the police themselves were ambivalent about Cardiff Carnival. I distinctly
remember in 1994 a friendly police officer explaining how the penny had finally dropped
for him when he fully realised that Cardiff Carnival Parade was a massive and joyous celebration on the
road and ought not be policed as some sort of riotous, politically contentious demonstration
or protest. It is to Cardiff Carnival's credit that all those involved withstood any early setbacks
and misunderstandings, thereby allowing it to grow year by year and become a widely accepted and
much loved family event. In short, to become the biggest and brightest collective celebration of Cardiff by Cardiff.